#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
RSVN System Overview
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
JC Clark
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Newpage newpage
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Part*
Beginnings
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I had the pleasure of working at a small island Resort for several years.
 It was a newly opening Resort so I was lucky to be a part of it's initial
 evolution.
 Originally, I was brought on board to install the computer network and
 create computer applications which would help the staff keep things organized.
 My job expanded and I eventually became familiar with all facets of resort
 operations and saw it through periods of great success and several natural
 disasters which changed the Resort into an emergency shelter with semi-permanen
t residents.
 Our General Manager was a Hotel genius with many years of experience.
 She was my guide and by merging her ideas we created the first iteration
 of this application.
 It turned out better than I could have imagined.
 The paperwork avalanche was tamed and we were able to keep track of reservation
s and occupancy.
 We were able to make smart managerial decisions, it was very useful and
 served us well at the time.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The current version in development will have some advanced features, while
 integrating with modular programming tools, it will be a more powerful
 and easily maintained application for modern stakeholders.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In essence,, the RSVN System is for any entity who operates an accommodation
 small or large, Hotel, B&B, Inn, Motel, Resort, Dormitory, Apartment Complex
 etc.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
RSVN is an organizational tool which allows staff and managers to maintain
 the integrity of their accommodation operation by being able to quickly
 visualize situations and have confidence in the accuracy of the data.
 In this overview we will use 'the Hotel' as the property, with the understandin
g that we can customize the application for just about any accommodation.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Newpage pagebreak
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Part
Accommodations Overview
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The Hotel business, at times, can appear to be controlled chaos.
 As with any customer driven service industry there are many moving parts
 that make a successful operation.
 The RSVN System is a tool to help reduce errors and help in providing good
 service.
 The RSVN system focuses in on providing support for the following aspects
 of accommodations.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Room Inventory Management
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Guest and Reservation Management
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Revenue Management
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Staff Management
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Room Inventory Management
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The fundamental unit in the Hotel business is the room.
 It is a perishable product which expires every day.
 If at all possible, we try to keep every room filled every day.
 We must know what rooms we have, and be able to organize them.
 Most properties have one or more buildings or some way of room organization.
 The building for some may be a Wing, Section or a Building Name or any
 other description may be possible.
 Once the building divisions are established we should have a unique number
 or letter for each room.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Room Type
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Similar rooms should be grouped into a room type.
 Several or all rooms in a building can be of a certain type i.e., Deluxe
 or Standard.
 These rooms can have variations with different bed arrangements so sub
 types like Deluxe01 Deluxe02.
 Once the type has been established, the room rates can be applied.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Room Rates
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Once each room type is assessed a rack rate.
 The rack rate is the maximum rate for that type of room.
 All rooms of a particular class will have the same rack rate.
 This is the basis on which a room daily charge will be developed by the
 Revenue Manager.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Guest Contact and Reservation Management
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Guest Contact Information
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
All guests should have their contact information on file before their stay.
 This important information should be handled securely and organized for
 easy search, retrieval and audit.
 We must be able to easily search and access the records of their stay.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Reservations
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Room Reservations are the records of the revenue generated, and the guide
 and scheduler of all activities.
 In these modern times reservations can come from many places; online websites,
 tour agencies, booking portal sites, as well as being entered manually
 at the front-desk.
 Guests reserve a room or rooms for a specific period.
 The reservation will be the founding document of the final invoice we present
 for payment.
 It should show all charges and payments.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
When we make a reservation we need to know what rooms are available during
 that time period.
 We need to know the state of the hotel at any point in time or during any
 span of time.
 This allows management to make the best decisions on room selection, occupancy
 and availability.
 Once again, the critical information is knowing at what state the occupancy
 of the hotel is at any given time frame.
 Once the time of the occupancy has passed, the reservation and any information
 attached, represents a permanent read-only record which should be archived
 accordingly.
 The rate infrastructure can be dynamic but the charges assigned to each
 archived reservations are fixed and they can be used to reconcile the Hotel
 income for the year.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Revenue Management
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection*
Seasons
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The Revenue Management of a property is a science.
 The Revenue Manager must forecast the value of a room during certain periods
 of the year.
 The idea of seasons comes to mind.
 We vary the price as supply and demand changes the market value throughout
 the year, so that we can get the most profit and keep the rooms filled.
 The job of the Revenue Manager is to forecast when to raise or lower the
 room cost.
 This is a data science so the better the data, the more accurate a forecast
 can be made.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Looking at the calendar for a year, we can imagine the Christmas and New
 Year Holiday Season as well as the summer season for the our locale.
 The slow tourist seasons and the high seasons are pretty well defined as
 they follow global vacation trends.
 Other factors should be taken into account which are specific to a locale.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection*
Season Calendar
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The season calendar gives the Revenue Manager an overall snapshot of the
 year where he can carve out as many seasons and special periods to adjust
 the overall income of the property.
 The season calendar should be an easy to use tool that gives immediate
 feedback on the results of the forecast.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection*
Season Rate
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Once we have determined the dates now we determine the amount of discount
 we apply to the room.
 Using the room rack rate as our maximum we can adjust the seasonal rate
 as a discount of the rack rate.
 For instance High Summer season can be 80% of rack Rate, Christmas season
 could possibly be less at 75%, the low season could be 50%.
 There is almost no constraints on the way that a revenue manager sets up
 their property.
 It is a function of the location and type of accommodation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection*
Yearly Trending
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Most of the decisions a Revenue Manager will make will depend on past performanc
e of the property and/or similar properties in the area or locale.
 It would also be beneficial to know the total estimated for the year and
 the actual revenue for that year.
 This trending helps to make the estimates and forecasting more accurate.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Staff Management
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Staff management can be a daily struggle.
 The bottom line is that the rooms must be fully operational, cleaned and
 ready for the next guest to occupy them.
 If a property deals in tour group travel and block reservations, staff
 management can be even more challenged.
 Rooms must be dependably cleaned and repaired on time.
 Staffing is critical for housekeepers and maintenance staff.
 Information and communication is essential.
 People are assigned to clean, someone may need to do a final inspection
 and the information must get back to the front desk or whoever manages
 the reservation check ins in a timely fashion.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Staff Task Information
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Scheduling is important and the feedback from staff doing the work is equally
 valuable.
 There has to be a manager keeping an eye on the staffing level as well
 as the work being assigned.
 The more visual guidance we can provide for scheduling, the more accurately
 the manager can assign tasks.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Housekeeping
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Housekeepers must be assigned their rooms and they must let the front desk
 know when the room is ready for occupancy.
 There has to be an adequate workforce to accomplish the daily chores.
 Here again the more visual the better.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Maintenance
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The maintenance of rooms must be done before the cleaning can complete.
 Ideally, a problem is discovered upon checkout and a maintenance staff
 member is dispatched, once repairs are completed, the cleaning can begin.
 If the repair cannot be done and the room is marked Out Of Commission,
 adjustments may have to be made up the reservation chain.
 Information must move quickly and in real-time.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
